All Benchmarking codes are presented here.

We have used the mentioned GitHub repository for the implementation of our code.

- The files 'model.py' and 'TinyPPG_model_best_params.pth' are for PPG artifacts
- The files 'SA_Detection.json' is for EDA artifacts. 


1) EDArtifact [https://github.com/shkurtagashi/EDArtifact]
   @article{10.1145/3397316,
    author = {Gashi, Shkurta and Di Lascio, Elena and Stancu, Bianca and Swain, Vedant Das and Mishra, Varun and Gjoreski, Martin and Santini, Silvia},
    title = {Detection of Artifacts in Ambulatory Electrodermal Activity Data},
    year = {2020},
    issue_date = {June 2020},
    publisher = {Association for Computing Machinery},
    address = {New York, NY, USA},
    volume = {4},
    number = {2},
    url = {https://doi.org/10.1145/3397316},
    doi = {10.1145/3397316},
    abstract = {Recent wearable devices enable continuous and unobtrusive monitoring of human's physiological parameters, like e.g., electrodermal activity and heart rate, over long periods of time in everyday life settings. Continuous monitoring of these parameters enables the creation of systems able to predict affective states and stress with the goal of providing feedback to improve them. Deployment of such systems in everyday life settings is still complex and prone to errors due to the low quality of the collected data impacted by the presence of artifacts. In this paper we present an automatic approach to detect artifacts in electrodermal activity (EDA) signals collected in-the-wild over long periods of time. To this end we first perform a systematic literature review and compile a set of guidelines for human annotators to label artifacts manually and we use these labels as ground-truth to test our automatic approach. To evaluate our approach, we collect physiological data from 13 participants in-the-wild and two human annotators label 107.56 hours of this data set. We make the data set publicly available to other researchers upon request. Our model achieves a recall of 98\% for clean and shape artifacts classification on data collected in-the-wild using leave-one-subject-out cross-validation, which is 42 percentage points higher than the baseline. We show that state of the art approaches do not generalize well when tested with completely in-the-wild data and identify only 17\% of the artifacts present in our data set, even after manual adaption. We further test the robustness of our approach over time using leave-one-day-out and achieve very similar performance. We then introduce a new metric to evaluate the quality of EDA segments that considers the impact of not only artifacts in the shape of EDA but also artifacts generated by environmental temperature changes or user's high intensity movement. Our results imply that we can eliminate the need for human annotators or significantly reduce the time they need to label data. Also, our approach can be used in an online manner to automatically detect artifacts in EDA signals.},
    journal = {Proc. ACM Interact. Mob. Wearable Ubiquitous Technol.},
    month = jun,
    articleno = {44},
    numpages = {31},
    keywords = {Wearable Sensing, Electrodermal Activity, Data Quality, Artifacts Detection, Ambulatory}
    }
2) Tiny PPG [https://github.com/SZTU-wearable/Tiny-PPG]
   @article{ZHENG2024101007,
    title = {Tiny-PPG: A lightweight deep neural network for real-time detection of motion artifacts in photoplethysmogram signals on edge devices},
    journal = {Internet of Things},
    volume = {25},
    pages = {101007},
    year = {2024},
    issn = {2542-6605},
    doi = {https://doi.org/10.1016/j.iot.2023.101007},
    url = {https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S254266052300330X},
    author = {Yali Zheng and Chen Wu and Peizheng Cai and Zhiqiang Zhong and Hongda Huang and Yuqi Jiang},
    keywords = {Edge AI, IoT wearables, Photoplethysmogram, Motion artifacts},
    abstract = {Photoplethysmogram (PPG) signals are easily contaminated by motion artifacts in real-world settings, despite their widespread use in Internet-of-Things (IoT) based wearable and smart health devices for cardiovascular health monitoring. This study proposed a lightweight deep neural network, called Tiny-PPG, for accurate and real-time PPG artifact segmentation on IoT edge devices. The model was trained and tested on a public dataset, PPG DaLiA, which featured complex artifacts with diverse lengths and morphologies during various daily activities of 15 subjects using a watch-type device (Empatica E4). The model structure, training method and loss function were specifically designed to balance detection accuracy and speed for real-time PPG artifact detection in resource-constrained embedded devices. To optimize the model size and capability in multi-scale feature representation, the model employed depth-wise separable convolution and atrous spatial pyramid pooling modules, respectively. Additionally, the contrastive loss was also utilized to further optimize the feature embeddings. With additional model pruning, Tiny-PPG achieved state-of-the-art detection accuracy of 87.4% while only having 19,726 model parameters (0.15 megabytes), and was successfully deployed on an STM32 embedded system for real-time PPG artifact detection. Therefore, this study provides an effective solution for resource-constraint IoT smart health devices in PPG artifact detection.}
    }
3) EEVR[https://github.com/alchemy18/EEVR/tree/main]
   @inproceedings{ singh2024eevr, title={{EEVR}: A Dataset of Paired Physiological Signals and Textual Descriptions for Joint Emotion Representation Learning}, author={Pragya Singh and Ritvik Budhiraja and Ankush Gupta and Anshul Goswami and Mohan Kumar and Pushpendra Singh}, booktitle={The Thirty-eight Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track}, year={2024}, url={https://openreview.net/forum?id=qgzdGyQcDt} }
